E aí eu trago pra vocês o monomito, né?
O monomito é uma construção que foi feita de como contar uma história, né?
Elas geralmente seguem um padrão, você vai ver que vários filmes seguem esse mesmo padrão,
várias histórias, várias pessoas seguem isso aqui,
que é uma forma de você contar a história, onde você consegue mostrar as vulnerabilidades
ao mesmo tempo que os feitos, as conquistas, e você casa essas duas coisas.
O monomito, ou a jornada do herói, ela passa por um chamado, né? FIS FIS FIS O que Harry Potter, Katniss Everdeen e Frodo que conta um pouquinho sobre essa jornada. from all over the world and published a book called The Hero with a Thousand Faces, retelling dozens of stories and explaining how each represents the monomyth or hero's journey.
So what is the hero's journey? Think of it as a cycle. The journey begins and ends in the hero's
ordinary world, but the quest passes through an unfamiliar, special world.
Along the way, there are some key events.
Think about your favorite book or movie.
Does it follow this pattern?
Status quo, that's where we start.
1 o'clock, call to adventure.
The hero receives a mysterious message, an invitation, a challenge.
2 o'clock, assistance.
The hero needs some help,
probably from someone older, wiser.
Three o'clock, departure.
The hero crosses the threshold from his normal, safe home
and enters the special world and adventure.
We're not in Kansas anymore.
Four o'clock, trials.
Being a hero is hard work.
Our hero solves a riddle, slays a monster, escapes from a trap.
5 o'clock, approach. It's time to face the biggest ordeal, the hero's worst fear.
6 o'clock, crisis. This is the hero's darkest hour. He faces death and possibly even dies, only to be reborn.
Seven o'clock, treasure.
As a result, the hero claims some treasure, special recognition or power.
Eight o'clock, result.
This can vary between stories.
Do the monsters bow down before the hero or do they chase him as he flees from the special world?
Nine o'clock, return.
After all that adventure, the hero returns to his ordinary world.
Ten o'clock, new life.
This quest has changed the hero.
He has outgrown his old life.
Eleven o'clock, resolution.
All the tangled plot lines get straightened out. He has outgrown his old life. 11 o'clock, resolution.
All the tangled plot lines get straightened out.
12 o'clock, status quo, but upgraded to a new level.
Nothing is quite the same once you're a hero.
Many popular books and movies follow this ancient formula
pretty closely, but let's see how well The Hunger Games
fits the hero's journey template.
When does Katniss Everdeen hear a call to adventure that gets the story moving?
When her sister's name is called from the lottery.
How about assistance?
Is anyone going to help her on her adventure?
Hamish?
What about departure?
Does she leave her ordinary world?
She gets on a train to the capital.
Okay, so you get the idea.
What do you have in common with Harry Potter, Katniss Everdeen, and Frodo?
Well, you're human, just like them.
The Hero's Journey myth exists in all human cultures and keeps getting updated
because we humans reflect on our world through symbolic stories of our own lives.
You leave your comfort zone, have an experience that transforms you,
and then you recover and do it again.
You don't literally slay dragons
or fight Voldemort,
but you face problems just as scary.
Joseph Campbell said,
In the cave you fear to enter,
lies the treasure you seek.
What is the symbolic cave
you fear to enter?
Auditions for the school play? Baseball tryouts? Why is the treasure you seek? What is the symbolic cave you fear to enter?
Auditions for the school play?
Baseball tryouts?
Love?
Watch for this formula in books, movies,
and TV shows you come across.
You will certainly see it again,
but also be sensitive to it in your own life.
Listen for your call to adventure.
Accept the challenge.
Conquer your fear and claim the treasure you seek. Ouçam o seu convite para a aventura. Aceitem o desafio. Conquerem sua medo e reclamem do tesouro que procuram.
E então, façam de novo. FIS Fórmula mágica de como a gente constrói essa confiança ao longo do tempo. Porque confiança é aquele negócio.
A gente demora anos para construir e perde minutos.
Você precisa ter competência.
A pessoa precisa olhar para você e falar assim, não.
Ele dá conta, ele consegue fazer.
Então você tem que construir a competência e somado a isso, a consistência.
É todo dia, não é um dia bem, um dia mal, um dia bem, um dia mal.
Você precisa ser
consistente, se o que a gente
fala, a gente faz
se a gente não tem hipocrisias
se a gente mantém a performance
sempre, então é
todo dia a mesma coisa ali
e VULNERABILIDADE
a capacidade de se abrir e mostrar
também os seus pontos fracos
e por último, o que a gente chama
A BOA VONTADE, a boa vontade é a capacidade que a pessoa FIS só que tem um fator que diminui tudo isso você soma todos esses fatores e divide pelo individualismo
se a pessoa olhar pra você
e ver que você está fazendo isso por causa de um
bem que você quer ter pessoal
por causa de um ganho, você está trazendo
isso pra você, aí você
costuma perder
confiança, então
cada vez que você demonstra que está fazendo isso por interesse
próprio, não do time
você vai perdendo essa confiança.
Então você precisa construir competência, consistência, vulnerabilidade,
boa vontade e diminuir ao maço o individualismo.
Não só seu, mas isso entre o grupo inteiro como um todo.
E sem nos esquecermos que toda comunicação tem dois lados.
Então da mesma forma que você está fazendo isso com o seu time, o time também tem que trabalhar isso entre eles, FIS
FIS